Purpose
In this investigation you will
determine the effects of substrate
concentration and pH on the initial
rate of an enzyme-catalyzed
reaction.

Objections:
 1. Determine the effect of
    substrate concentration on
    the initial rate of an enzyme-
    catalyzed reaction.
	   
 2. Determine the effect of pH on
    the initial rate of an enzyme-
    catalyzed reaction.
	   
Procedure
Click the TV/VCR. Then click the
Play button on the video controller.
Watch an animation about enzyme
action.

Click More Information to read
about enzymes and substrates

To conduct the experiment, adjust
the pH level of the test tubes by
clicking the up and down arrows, 
then add substrate to each of the
test tubes that already contain an
enzyme solution. Click and drag a
piece of weighing paper with the
powdered substrate to a test tube.
Note: Assume that the enzyme
concentration in each test tube is
constant.

Click the copmuter monitor to see
the digital counter table that
displays the number of product
molecules formed during the first
minute in each of the five test
tubes. This is the initial reaction rate.
of this enzyme-catalyzed reaction.
Click the Table button to record the data in the Table.

Click the Reset button. Repeat the
experiment using different amounts
of substrate at a constant pH value.
Or, use one substrate at five
different pH levels. Record your
results in the Table. When all the
data has been collected an
recorded, click the Graph button to
see a graph of the results.

After you have performed the
experiment, click the Journal button
and answer the Analysis questions. 